README.md, before:

# NIXON-&#928; :: The Raspberry Pi based Nixie Display


The Nixon-&#960; Display consists of **Nixie Tubes** provided by [Ogilumen](http://www.ogilumen.com/), driven by a **Raspberry Pi Model B** with an **I/O expansion card** from [Axiris](http://www.axiris.be/).
It's driven by a multi-threaded ruby application consisting of I/O drivers, state machines, a sinatra based web app and json api connected by message queues.

What started out as a private idea found it's way into a mini-project on a __LAB__ team event from [Namics](http://www.namics.com).

Many thanks to all who contributed and hopefully will contribute to this project!

--------------------------

**Jump to**

- [Components](#components)
- [Case](#case)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Service](#service)
- [API](#api)

--------------------------

##<a id="components" name="components"></a>Components

The following main components were used for assembly, not mentioning wiring and tools.

### 1x Raspberry Pi Model B

<img src="http://www.raspberrypi.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/Raspi_Iso_Blue.png" width="400" >
---
The [Raspberry Pi](http://www.raspberrypi.org/) is ideal for the project as it's a fully flegded mini computer which is capable of running all the things we need.

A standard installation with Debian Wheezy is recommended.
Install Ruby using the tutorial on [elinux](http://elinux.org/RPi_Ruby_on_Rails)

Here's a condensed list of the commands:

	sudo apt-get install -y git curl zlib1g-dev subversion
	sudo apt-get install -y openssl libreadline6-dev git-core zlib1g libssl-dev
	sudo apt-get install -y libyaml-dev libsqlite3-dev sqlite3
	sudo apt-get install -y libxml2-dev libxslt-dev
	sudo apt-get install -y autoconf automake libtool bison
	curl -L get.rvm.io | bash -s stable


### 1x [Axiris](http://www.axiris.be/) I/O Card for Raspberry Pi

<img src="http://www.axiris.be/en/images/stories/bcm2835/bcm2835_013_500.jpg" width="400" >
---
Because the Raspberry Pi only has [limited IO capabilites](http://elinux.org/RPi_Low-level_peripherals) the [Axisis I/O card](http://www.axiris.be/en/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=51:i2c-io-card-for-use-with-raspberry-pi-computer&catid=14:io-cards&Itemid=34) is the perfect addition to fully satisfy our needs. It adds:

* a very high accuracy real-time clock based on the PCF2129A with CR2032 backup battery.
* 8 quasi bidirectional I/O lines (PCF8574), 5V levels.
* 8 12-bit ADC inputs (MAX11614EEE+), 0 - 4.096V range.
* 16 output channels providing 12-bit pulse-width modulation (PWM) output channels at about 40 to 1000 Hz with LED drive capability, 10 mA source, 25 mA sink, 5 V levels.

The repository contains a modified driver to allow direct console output - without the need to start a telnet server in order to control the expansion card.
However, you're still able to use the telnet server while developing - with it you can remotely execute the code with a live connection.

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/io_card.png" width="400" >

1 lowel left, 2 upper left

1. IO Ports 
	1. I/O channel 0
	2. I/O channel 1
	3. I/O channel 2
	4. I/O channel 3
	5. I/O channel 4
	6. I/O channel 5
	7. I/O channel 6
	8. I/O channel 7
	9. GND
	10. 5 V output
2. timestamp input
	1. PCF2129A TS input
	2. GND
3. ADC input
	1. Analog input 0
	2. Analog input 1
	3. Analog input 2
	4. Analog input 3
	5. Analog input 4
	6. Analog input 5
	7. Analog input 6
	8. Analog input 7
	9. GND
	10. 5 V output
4. PWM8-PWM15
	1. PWM driver pin PWM8
	2. PWM driver pin PWM9
	3. PWM driver pin PWM10
	4. PWM driver pin PWM11
	5. PWM driver pin PWM12
	6. PWM driver pin PWM13
	7. PWM driver pin PWM14
	8. PWM driver pin PWM15
	9. GND
	10. 5 V output
5. PWM0-PWM7
	1. PWM driver pin PWM0
	2. PWM driver pin PWM1
	3. PWM driver pin PWM2
	4. PWM driver pin PWM3
	5. PWM driver pin PWM4
	6. PWM driver pin PWM5
	7. PWM driver pin PWM6
	8. PWM driver pin PWM7
	9. GND
	10. 5 V output

### 6x Nixie Duo Kits

<img src="http://www.ogilumen.com/images/product_pics/n2xdp1.jpg" width="400" >
---

[Ogilumen](http://www.ogilumen.com/) sells beautiful, compact and easy to assemble nixie tube kits containing two IN-12A tubes each.
Some electronics are needed so we're able to drive them using the 12-bit PWM channels.

**Electric diagram**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/nixie_duo_diagram.png" width="400" >


### 4x IN-13 Bar Graphs


<img src="http://www.ogilumen.com/images/product_pics/IN-13a.jpg" width="400" >
---

The IN-13 Neon Bar Graphs sold by Ogilumen are a beautiful way to display a variable length glowing bar.

**Electric diagram**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/bargraph_diagram.png" width="400" >


### 5x IN-1 Neon


<img src="http://www.ogilumen.com/images/product_pics/n1a.jpg" width="400" >
---
The IN-1 Neon Lamps are simply a nice LED-alternative and they have a nice warm orange glow...

**Electric diagram**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/lamp_diagram.png" width="400" >


## 1x 50 mA Nixie Tube Power Supply

<img src="http://www.ogilumen.com/images/product_pics/smps1.jpg" width="400" >
---

In the end we need a power supply to drive all our high-voltage Nixie goodness. Luckly ogilumen provides us with a readily assembled power supply capable of providing all the power we need...
If you want to power everything with a 12V power supply, use a voltage divider and a modified micro-usb jack to power the raspberry pi.

**Voltage divider electric diagram**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/voltage_divider_diagram.png" width="400" >

##<a id="case" name="case"></a> Case

The casing gives the nixon-pi a retro look - it should remind one of a sixties radio. A swiss carpentry manufactured the wooden casing - the rest was assembled by hand.

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/front_plate.png" width="800">

## <a id="installation" name="installation"></a>Installation

Although nixon-pi can be packed as a gem it's currently suggested to install it by cloning the repository.
The master branch contains the newest production release.

--------------------------

##<a id="service" name="service"></a> The Service

A telnet based client to drive nixie tubes via rest interface

## Comand line options
	
	bin/nixon-pi -h
	Usage: nixon-pi [options]
	    -e env                           set the environment (default is development, others are test and production)
	    -m                               force the usage of the telnet mock interface
	    -p port                          set the webserver port (default is 8080)
	    -h, --help                       Display help

The application drops a .yml configuration file in the users home directory. Review and adjust if neccessary...    

### Manage the daemon process

    ruby bin/nixonpi.rb start
    ruby bin/nixonpi.rb restart
    ruby bin/nixonpi.rb stop

### Controlling

The daemon is controlled via sinatra web application, see the example page at [server ip]:[port]

## The Gem

The Nixon-&#960; Service is packed as a standalone gem which can be run as a daemon.

### Build

Build with

    gem build nixon-pi.gemspec


### Install

    $ gem install nixie-berry-service


### State machines

The service uses a state machine to handle local executions.
Generate state machine diagrams with the following command:


	rake state_machine:draw FILE=./lib/nixonpi/state_machines/tube_state_machine.rb CLASS=NixonPi::TubeStateMachine
	rake state_machine:draw FILE=./lib/nixonpi/state_machines/bar_state_machine.rb CLASS=NixonPi::BarStateMachine
	rake state_machine:draw FILE=./lib/nixonpi/state_machines/lamp_state_machine.rb CLASS=NixonPi::LampStateMachine

**Tube State Machine**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/TubeStateMachine_state.png" width="400">

**Bar State Machine**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/BarStateMachine_state.png" width="400">

**Lamp State Machine**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/LampStateMachine_state.png" width="400">
	
--------------------------	
	
#<a id="api" name="api"></a> API

All api requests can be made as either .html or .json.
**JSONP** is returned to support 3rd party apps.

## Port

The web server port can be configured in the nixonpi-settings.yml file inside your home directory.

	prodiction:
	  web_server:
	    port: 3000

--------------------------

## POST Requests

Post requests to control the nixon-pi.

### POST /tubes

Control the IN-12A digit tubes.
The Tubes allow values from 0 to 9 including _ (Space) for no value.

| Parameters | Values | Data Type | Description  | Required |
| ---------- | ------ | --------- | ------------ | -------- |
| state | time, free_value, animation, countdown, run_test | String | State of the state machine | * |
| value | 0-9 or _ (Space) | String | Max. length 12 | * |
| time_format | ex: "%H%M%S" | String | only in state "time" | |
| animation_name | single_fly_in, count_from_to, switch_numbers | String |  | |
| options |  | JSON | Advanced options hash | |
| initial_mode | true, false | Boolean | Load on startup | |

### POST /lamps

Control the IN-1 neon tubes.
The neon tubes can either be turned on or off - they're like orange LEDs.

| Parameters | Values | Data Type | Description  | Required |
| ---------- | ------ | --------- | ------------ | -------- |
| state | free_value, animation, run_test | String |  State of the state machine  | * |
| values | Array of 0 or 1 | Array of Integer | Max. length 5 | * |
| animation_name | single_fly_in, count_from_to, switch_numbers | String |  | |
| options |  | JSON |Advanced options hash | |
| initial_mode | true, false | Boolean |Load on startup | |

### POST /bars

Control the IN-13 bargraph tubes.
The bargraphs are a linear display to visualize a value between 0 (off) and 255 (full width).

| Parameters | Values | Data Type | Description  | Required |
| ---------- | ------ | --------- | ------------ | -------- |
| state | free_value, animation | String | State of the state machine | * |
| values | Array of 0 to 255 | Array of Integer |Max. length 4 | * |
| animation_name | ramp_up_down | String | | |
| options |  | JSON | Advanced options hash | |
| initial_mode | true, false | Boolean |Load on startup | |

### POST /say

Synthesize text to speech.

| Parameters | Values | Data Type | Description  | Required |
| ---------- | ------ | --------- | ------------ | -------- |
| value | Hello World | String | TTS String | * |

### POST /power

Control the high-voltage power supply.

| Parameters | Values | Data Type | Description  | Required |
| ---------- | ------ | --------- | ------------ | -------- |
| value | 0 or 1 | String | Turn on or off the high voltage power supply | * |

### POST /scheduler

--------------------------

## GET Requests

Get requests to get information about the nixon-pi.

### GET /info/:target.:format

Get information about the current state of a specified state machine.

| Parameters | Values |
| ---------- | ------ |
| :target | tubes, bars, lamps, power |
| :format | html, json |

**Example:**

	wget http://localhost:3000/info/tubes.json

Returns:

	{
	    "info": {
	        "animation_name": "single_fly_in",
	        "options": {},
	        "last_value": "214740",
	        "last_state": "animation",
	        "state": "time",
	        "last_time": "2013-01-16T21:47:40+01:00"
	    },
	    "message": "tubes set to",
	    "success": true
	}

### GET /info.:format

Get hardware information about the Raspberry-Pi I/O expansion card.
Information include:

* RTC - Real time clock
* IO  - GPIO driver
* ADC - Analog digital converter driver
* PWM - Pulse width modulation driver


| Parameters | Values |
| ---------- | ------ |
| :format | html, json |

**Example:**

	wget http://localhost:3000/info.json

Returns:

	{
	    "info": {
	        "rtc": "1",
	        "io": "1",
	        "adc": "1",
	        "pwm": "1"
	    },
	    "message": "Hardware information",
	    "success": true
	}

### GET /command/:target.:format

Get a json containing all available commands for a specified target.

| Parameters | Values |
| ---------- | ------ |
| :target | tubes, bars, lamps, power, say |
| :format | html, json |

**Example:**

	curl http://localhost:3000/command/tubes.json

Returns:

	{
	    "state": null,
	    "value": null,
	    "time_format": null,
	    "animation_name": null,
	    "options": null,
	    "initial_mode": null
	}

### GET /commands.:format

Get a json of all available commands.

| Parameters | Values |
| ---------- | ------ |
| :format | html, json |


Return a json of available commands and parameters.

**Example:**

	curl http://localhost:3000/commands.json

Returns:

	{
	    "tubes": {
	        "state": null,
	        "value": null,
	        "time_format": null,
	        "animation_name": null,
	        "options": null,
	        "time": null,
	        "initial_mode": null
	    },
	    "bars": {
	        "state": null,
	        "values": null,
	        "animation_name": null,
	        "options": null,
	        "time": null,
	        "initial_mode": null
	    },
	    "lamps": {
	        "state": null,
	        "values": null,
	        "animation_name": null,
	        "options": null,
	        "time": null,
	        "initial_mode": null
	    },
	    "power": {
	        "value": null,
	        "time": null
	    },
	    "say": {
	        "value": null,
	        "time": null
	    },
	    "message": "Available commands",
	    "success": true
	}

--------------------------

## DELETE Requests

Delete saved values.

### DELETE /schedule/:id

Delete a saved schedule.

| Parameters | Values |
| ---------- | ------ |
| :id | id of an existing schedule |


**Example**

    curl -X DELETE http://localhost/schedule/1

Returns:

	{
		"success":true,
		"message":"Schedule deleted"
	}

Commit message:

fix webrick shutdown but, add profiling in development environment

README.md, after:

# NIXON-&#928; :: The Raspberry Pi based Nixie Display


The Nixon-&#960; Display consists of **Nixie Tubes** provided by [Ogilumen](http://www.ogilumen.com/), driven by a **Raspberry Pi Model B** with an **I/O expansion card** from [Axiris](http://www.axiris.be/).
It's driven by a multi-threaded ruby application consisting of I/O drivers, state machines, a sinatra based web app and json api connected by message queues.

What started out as a private idea found it's way into a mini-project on a __LAB__ team event from [Namics](http://www.namics.com).

Many thanks to all who contributed and hopefully will contribute to this project!

--------------------------

**Jump to**

- [Components](#components)
- [Case](#case)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Service](#service)
- [API](#api)

--------------------------

##<a id="components" name="components"></a>Components

The following main components were used for assembly, not mentioning wiring and tools.

### 1x Raspberry Pi Model B

<img src="http://www.raspberrypi.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/Raspi_Iso_Blue.png" width="400" >
---
The [Raspberry Pi](http://www.raspberrypi.org/) is ideal for the project as it's a fully flegded mini computer which is capable of running all the things we need.

A standard installation with Debian Wheezy is recommended.
Install Ruby using the tutorial on [elinux](http://elinux.org/RPi_Ruby_on_Rails)

Here's a condensed list of the commands:

	sudo apt-get install -y git curl zlib1g-dev subversion
	sudo apt-get install -y openssl libreadline6-dev git-core zlib1g libssl-dev
	sudo apt-get install -y libyaml-dev libsqlite3-dev sqlite3
	sudo apt-get install -y libxml2-dev libxslt-dev
	sudo apt-get install -y autoconf automake libtool bison
	curl -L get.rvm.io | bash -s stable


### 1x [Axiris](http://www.axiris.be/) I/O Card for Raspberry Pi

<img src="http://www.axiris.be/en/images/stories/bcm2835/bcm2835_013_500.jpg" width="400" >
---
Because the Raspberry Pi only has [limited IO capabilites](http://elinux.org/RPi_Low-level_peripherals) the [Axisis I/O card](http://www.axiris.be/en/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=51:i2c-io-card-for-use-with-raspberry-pi-computer&catid=14:io-cards&Itemid=34) is the perfect addition to fully satisfy our needs. It adds:

* a very high accuracy real-time clock based on the PCF2129A with CR2032 backup battery.
* 8 quasi bidirectional I/O lines (PCF8574), 5V levels.
* 8 12-bit ADC inputs (MAX11614EEE+), 0 - 4.096V range.
* 16 output channels providing 12-bit pulse-width modulation (PWM) output channels at about 40 to 1000 Hz with LED drive capability, 10 mA source, 25 mA sink, 5 V levels.

The repository contains a modified driver to allow direct console output - without the need to start a telnet server in order to control the expansion card.
However, you're still able to use the telnet server while developing - with it you can remotely execute the code with a live connection.

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/io_card.png" width="400" >

1 lowel left, 2 upper left

1. IO Ports 
	1. I/O channel 0
	2. I/O channel 1
	3. I/O channel 2
	4. I/O channel 3
	5. I/O channel 4
	6. I/O channel 5
	7. I/O channel 6
	8. I/O channel 7
	9. GND
	10. 5 V output
2. timestamp input
	1. PCF2129A TS input
	2. GND
3. ADC input
	1. Analog input 0
	2. Analog input 1
	3. Analog input 2
	4. Analog input 3
	5. Analog input 4
	6. Analog input 5
	7. Analog input 6
	8. Analog input 7
	9. GND
	10. 5 V output
4. PWM8-PWM15
	1. PWM driver pin PWM8
	2. PWM driver pin PWM9
	3. PWM driver pin PWM10
	4. PWM driver pin PWM11
	5. PWM driver pin PWM12
	6. PWM driver pin PWM13
	7. PWM driver pin PWM14
	8. PWM driver pin PWM15
	9. GND
	10. 5 V output
5. PWM0-PWM7
	1. PWM driver pin PWM0
	2. PWM driver pin PWM1
	3. PWM driver pin PWM2
	4. PWM driver pin PWM3
	5. PWM driver pin PWM4
	6. PWM driver pin PWM5
	7. PWM driver pin PWM6
	8. PWM driver pin PWM7
	9. GND
	10. 5 V output

### 6x Nixie Duo Kits

<img src="http://www.ogilumen.com/images/product_pics/n2xdp1.jpg" width="400" >
---

[Ogilumen](http://www.ogilumen.com/) sells beautiful, compact and easy to assemble nixie tube kits containing two IN-12A tubes each.
Some electronics are needed so we're able to drive them using the 12-bit PWM channels.

**Electric diagram**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/nixie_duo_diagram.png" width="400" >


### 4x IN-13 Bar Graphs


<img src="http://www.ogilumen.com/images/product_pics/IN-13a.jpg" width="400" >
---

The IN-13 Neon Bar Graphs sold by Ogilumen are a beautiful way to display a variable length glowing bar.

**Electric diagram**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/bargraph_diagram.png" width="400" >


### 5x IN-1 Neon


<img src="http://www.ogilumen.com/images/product_pics/n1a.jpg" width="400" >
---
The IN-1 Neon Lamps are simply a nice LED-alternative and they have a nice warm orange glow...

**Electric diagram**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/lamp_diagram.png" width="400" >


## 1x 50 mA Nixie Tube Power Supply

<img src="http://www.ogilumen.com/images/product_pics/smps1.jpg" width="400" >
---

In the end we need a power supply to drive all our high-voltage Nixie goodness. Luckly ogilumen provides us with a readily assembled power supply capable of providing all the power we need...
If you want to power everything with a 12V power supply, use a voltage divider and a modified micro-usb jack to power the raspberry pi.

**Voltage divider electric diagram**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/voltage_divider_diagram.png" width="400" >

##<a id="case" name="case"></a> Case

The casing gives the nixon-pi a retro look - it should remind one of a sixties radio. A swiss carpentry manufactured the wooden casing - the rest was assembled by hand.

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/front_plate.png" width="800">

## <a id="installation" name="installation"></a>Installation

Although nixon-pi can be packed as a gem it's currently suggested to install it by cloning the repository.
The master branch contains the newest production release.

--------------------------

##<a id="service" name="service"></a> The Service

A telnet based client to drive nixie tubes via rest interface

## Comand line options
	
	bin/nixon-pi -h
	Usage: nixon-pi [options]
	    -e env                           set the environment (default is development, others are test and production)
	    -m                               force the usage of the telnet mock interface
	    -p port                          set the webserver port (default is 8080)
	    -h, --help                       Display help

The application drops a .yml configuration file in the users home directory. Review and adjust if neccessary...    


**NOTE** Most probably the ctrl+c combination will not suffice to stop the webrick server started by sinatra. In this case use ctrl+z to stop

### Controlling

The whole device is controlled via sinatra web application, see the example page at [server ip]:[port]

## The Gem

The Nixon-&#960; Service is packed as a standalone gem which can be run as a daemon.

### Build

Build with

    gem build nixon-pi.gemspec


### Install

    $ gem install nixie-berry-service


### State machines

The service uses a state machine to handle local executions.
Generate state machine diagrams with the following command:


	rake state_machine:draw FILE=./lib/nixonpi/state_machines/tube_state_machine.rb CLASS=NixonPi::TubeStateMachine
	rake state_machine:draw FILE=./lib/nixonpi/state_machines/bar_state_machine.rb CLASS=NixonPi::BarStateMachine
	rake state_machine:draw FILE=./lib/nixonpi/state_machines/lamp_state_machine.rb CLASS=NixonPi::LampStateMachine

**Tube State Machine**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/TubeStateMachine_state.png" width="400">

**Bar State Machine**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/BarStateMachine_state.png" width="400">

**Lamp State Machine**

<img src="https://dl.dropbox.com/u/23566127/nixon-pi_images/LampStateMachine_state.png" width="400">
	
--------------------------	
	
#<a id="api" name="api"></a> API

All api requests can be made as either .html or .json.
**JSONP** is returned to support 3rd party apps.

## Port

The web server port can be configured in the nixonpi-settings.yml file inside your home directory.

	prodiction:
	  web_server:
	    port: 3000

--------------------------

## POST Requests

Post requests to control the nixon-pi.

### POST /tubes

Control the IN-12A digit tubes.
The Tubes allow values from 0 to 9 including _ (Space) for no value.

| Parameters | Values | Data Type | Description  | Required |
| ---------- | ------ | --------- | ------------ | -------- |
| state | time, free_value, animation, countdown, run_test | String | State of the state machine | * |
| value | 0-9 or _ (Space) | String | Max. length 12 | * |
| time_format | ex: "%H%M%S" | String | only in state "time" | |
| animation_name | single_fly_in, count_from_to, switch_numbers | String |  | |
| options |  | JSON | Advanced options hash | |
| initial_mode | true, false | Boolean | Load on startup | |

### POST /lamps

Control the IN-1 neon tubes.
The neon tubes can either be turned on or off - they're like orange LEDs.

| Parameters | Values | Data Type | Description  | Required |
| ---------- | ------ | --------- | ------------ | -------- |
| state | free_value, animation, run_test | String |  State of the state machine  | * |
| values | Array of 0 or 1 | Array of Integer | Max. length 5 | * |
| animation_name | single_fly_in, count_from_to, switch_numbers | String |  | |
| options |  | JSON |Advanced options hash | |
| initial_mode | true, false | Boolean |Load on startup | |

### POST /bars

Control the IN-13 bargraph tubes.
The bargraphs are a linear display to visualize a value between 0 (off) and 255 (full width).

| Parameters | Values | Data Type | Description  | Required |
| ---------- | ------ | --------- | ------------ | -------- |
| state | free_value, animation | String | State of the state machine | * |
| values | Array of 0 to 255 | Array of Integer |Max. length 4 | * |
| animation_name | ramp_up_down | String | | |
| options |  | JSON | Advanced options hash | |
| initial_mode | true, false | Boolean |Load on startup | |

### POST /say

Synthesize text to speech.

| Parameters | Values | Data Type | Description  | Required |
| ---------- | ------ | --------- | ------------ | -------- |
| value | Hello World | String | TTS String | * |

### POST /power

Control the high-voltage power supply.

| Parameters | Values | Data Type | Description  | Required |
| ---------- | ------ | --------- | ------------ | -------- |
| value | 0 or 1 | String | Turn on or off the high voltage power supply | * |

### POST /scheduler

--------------------------

## GET Requests

Get requests to get information about the nixon-pi.

### GET /info/:target.:format

Get information about the current state of a specified state machine.

| Parameters | Values |
| ---------- | ------ |
| :target | tubes, bars, lamps, power |
| :format | html, json |

**Example:**

	wget http://localhost:3000/info/tubes.json

Returns:

	{
	    "info": {
	        "animation_name": "single_fly_in",
	        "options": {},
	        "last_value": "214740",
	        "last_state": "animation",
	        "state": "time",
	        "last_time": "2013-01-16T21:47:40+01:00"
	    },
	    "message": "tubes set to",
	    "success": true
	}

### GET /info.:format

Get hardware information about the Raspberry-Pi I/O expansion card.
Information include:

* RTC - Real time clock
* IO  - GPIO driver
* ADC - Analog digital converter driver
* PWM - Pulse width modulation driver


| Parameters | Values |
| ---------- | ------ |
| :format | html, json |

**Example:**

	wget http://localhost:3000/info.json

Returns:

	{
	    "info": {
	        "rtc": "1",
	        "io": "1",
	        "adc": "1",
	        "pwm": "1"
	    },
	    "message": "Hardware information",
	    "success": true
	}

### GET /command/:target.:format

Get a json containing all available commands for a specified target.

| Parameters | Values |
| ---------- | ------ |
| :target | tubes, bars, lamps, power, say |
| :format | html, json |

**Example:**

	curl http://localhost:3000/command/tubes.json

Returns:

	{
	    "state": null,
	    "value": null,
	    "time_format": null,
	    "animation_name": null,
	    "options": null,
	    "initial_mode": null
	}

### GET /commands.:format

Get a json of all available commands.

| Parameters | Values |
| ---------- | ------ |
| :format | html, json |


Return a json of available commands and parameters.

**Example:**

	curl http://localhost:3000/commands.json

Returns:

	{
	    "tubes": {
	        "state": null,
	        "value": null,
	        "time_format": null,
	        "animation_name": null,
	        "options": null,
	        "time": null,
	        "initial_mode": null
	    },
	    "bars": {
	        "state": null,
	        "values": null,
	        "animation_name": null,
	        "options": null,
	        "time": null,
	        "initial_mode": null
	    },
	    "lamps": {
	        "state": null,
	        "values": null,
	        "animation_name": null,
	        "options": null,
	        "time": null,
	        "initial_mode": null
	    },
	    "power": {
	        "value": null,
	        "time": null
	    },
	    "say": {
	        "value": null,
	        "time": null
	    },
	    "message": "Available commands",
	    "success": true
	}

--------------------------

## DELETE Requests

Delete saved values.

### DELETE /schedule/:id

Delete a saved schedule.

| Parameters | Values |
| ---------- | ------ |
| :id | id of an existing schedule |


**Example**

    curl -X DELETE http://localhost/schedule/1

Returns:

	{
		"success":true,
		"message":"Schedule deleted"
	}
